# Terraform Beginner Bootcamp 2023

## Semantic Versioning 2.0.0
Summary
Given a version number MAJOR.MINOR.PATCH, increment the:

MAJOR version when you make incompatible API changes
MINOR version when you add functionality in a backward compatible manner
PATCH version when you make backward compatible bug fixes
Additional labels for pre-release and build metadata are available as extensions to the MAJOR.MINOR.PATCH format.

# Terraform Basics

### Terraform registry
Terraform sources their providers and module from the terraform registry which located at [registry.terraform.io](https://registry.terraform.io/).

- **Providers:** are responsible for understanding API interactions and exposing resources for Terraform to manage. Providers generally are an IaaS (e.g. AWS, GCP, Microsoft Azure, OpenStack), PaaS (e.g. Heroku), or SaaS services (e.g. Terraform Cloud, DNSimple, CloudFlare).
- **Modules:** are self-contained packages of Terraform configurations/code that are managed as a group. Modules are used to create reusable components, improve organization, and to treat pieces of infrastructure as a black box.

### Example of a provider
[Random Provider](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/random/latest/docs)

## Terraform CLI
Terraform CLI is the command line interface for Terraform. It is the primary interface for Terraform and is how most users interact with Terraform.

## Terraform init
Terraform init is used to initialize a working directory containing Terraform configuration files. This is the first command that should be run after writing a new Terraform configuration or cloning an existing one from version control. It is safe to run this command multiple times.

## Terraform plan
Terraform plan is used to create an execution plan. Terraform performs a refresh, unless explicitly disabled, and then determines what actions are necessary to achieve the desired state specified in the configuration files. We can save the plan to a file using -out option and apply it later using terraform apply command.

## Terraform apply
Terraform apply is used to apply the changes required to reach the desired state of the configuration, or the pre-determined set of actions generated by a terraform plan execution plan. We can also use -auto-approve flag to skip the confirmation prompt. In order to auto-approve the plan, we can use -auto-approve flag.

## Terraform lock file
Terraform lock file contains the locked versions of all modules used in the configuration. This file is maintained automatically and should not be edited. This file is intended to be checked into version control.